# Mentor Feedback: Ben Wander

Ben Wander is a local Denver game developer, currently the lead designer of in development game Airborne Kingdom. We got to interview him last semester during our idea validation phase, and he was super interested and excited to see what we would come up with. Now that he had an early build of our game actually in his hands, he said he totally gets what our project is all about now fully, and that he loves it. He thought that right now the game is in pretty much a perfect state to be pitching the concept to publishers, if that was the route we were going down. But instead of pitching to publishers we get to just keep on going because it's a student project. Ben says that the big takeaway for moving forward is to try to just maximize player interaction as much as possible, and make the changes that happen as big and dramatic as we can.

We received instsructor feeback last week that our orbs didn't really feel like they were following you after you "grabbed" them, so we sped up their follow rate before mentor feedback, but still wanted to know how it felt to Ben. He said he had absolutely no problems with it, and that it worked just fine for him.

Two of us are also taking the ATLAS course "Games as Culture" this semester where earlier we discussed the lens of "Games as Gardens," investigating the cultivative aspects and meaningful choices that games can have. Because our game actually has the word "Garden" in the title, we asked Ben what he thought about apply that lens to our game. He said he doesn't feel like aspects of cultivation really would fit well into what we've crafted or what it seems like we're going for, and doesn't reccomend trying to add that or it could make the game too complicated or off-track. But he did feel like our game could really benefit from some meaningful choices that would result in a player being able to go back to play the same song again but do things differently to experience things differently. That could mean adding things like the order that the orbs are collected in matters just as an example.

In looking for other ways to add meaningful choices we asked about adding controls, and Ben said one of his favorite things about our game was it's incredibly simple control set. That meant that it could be easily presented in an exhibit or installation, and people with little game knowledge could come experience the game. He said we could add effects to the jump/sprint that would make them visually more interesting and add to the game, but that if they become necessary to enjoying the game, then it would no longer be enjoyable to people who don't figure out any controls beyond the basic WASD and mouse.

* Ben's first impressions were that he totally gets what our project is all about now and he loves it.
* He thinks that it's in the ideal state for us to be pitching it to a publisher as a prototype right now (if that's what we were doing, but it's not).
* Big takeaway for moving forward: get as much player interaction as you can now where there's big dramatic changes happening
* He thought that the orb follow rate was perfectly fine after the recent tweaks we made this week, no noticable problems at all.
* On the topic of games as gardens: he doesn't see the "cultivation" aspect fitting well into what we've shown him, but adding more interactions/meaningful gameplay choices (i.e. the order that orbs are collectedin matters) could add some garden-y aspects. He generaly views "gardens" in games as the opposite of randomness, and feels like our game plays really well with the random/unexpected vibes.
* Ben really liked how simple our set of controls was, saying it helped it fit into a exhibit/installation enviornment really well where there's a lot of people who are less familiar with games. Sprint and jump controls are maybe not needed, but adding effects to them (if we have time) wouldn't necessarily be a bad thing as long as they aren't vital to enjoying the game.
