# Mind's Garden Process Blog
Mind's Garden is a first person musical exploration game which reads in audio files to procedurally generate various terrains, characters, and experiences for the player to explore and discover. Every audio file produces a unique playthrough.

## Week 1 - 21 January 2020
### Trees, water, and splashes
We have three different types of trees to generate that all take a single variable (which will later be taken from the song itself) and move, rotate, scale, or otherwise change in a way that changes by this single variable being multiplied to pieces of the trees. We also have an edited water shader working and moving as our game's central "sound pond." Multiple particle systems show a splash for dropping any and all sound orbs into the pond. These assets are ready for import into the main project. 

### Procedural terrain generation
The terrain generation started off with a couple of false starts: square lattices and spiral initialization patterns, but soon enough I realized I was going down the wrong rabbit hole and backed out and approached it in a better way. I decided I needed to move to a skewable triangular lattice rather than the square lattice to make the terrain look smoother at lower resolutions. And the intention behind the spiral pattern was to be able to combine vertex and triangle initialization into the same loop as well as allow the domain to have shaped boundaries of potentially unknown shapes. This ended up being solved in an easier way by the triangular lattice itself as well as the use of adjustable length lists rather than fixed length arrays. The picture at the end of this section shows the progression of the terrain mesh, and the leftmost frame shows the terrain at this stage. The mesh had been created successfully in a triangular lattice patter, but the boundary was still normal and rectangular. The next step was to create shapes out of the boundary of the mesh, so I inserted an elipse boundary based off the previous rectangle. After fixing the many bugs that now had an opportunity to present themselves, the middle frame of the picture below shows the state at this point. The final step was to add the actually height of the terrain so it wasn't just a flat circle on the ground. I watched [Sebastian Lague's tutorial on procedural terrain generation](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLFt_AvWsXl0eBW2EiBtl_sxmDtSgZBxB3) to learn about how Perlin noise is used in context of terrain (octaves, persistence, lacunarity, etc.) but didn't actually follow the tutorial because I had better ideas on how the concepts could be integrated into our project. After incorporating the Perlin noise terrain generation into the project, the overall "procedurally generated terrain" aspect was pretty much done. I tweaked some parameters to get some good looking terrain for the third and final frame of the picture down below, but there will be much more tweaking to come in the future when there are more features to relate the terrain to.
